
        What is this project concerning?
        What is the central question you seek to answer?
        Who are the intended users, and what is their level of familiarity with this topic?
        What dataset do you plan to use?
        Where does the data come from?
        Do you need to do more analysis?


The inspiration for my project is two-fold. The first inspiration is around the rise in up-start working-class people who are running for office. Before the Sanders 2016 race, conventional wisdom around political races was summed up by the acronym of the Democratic Party's organization "EMILY's list": Early Money Is Like Yeast. If you didn't have the social connections to raise tens of thousands of dollars from friends and family in a couple of days, you weren't a viable candidate. The 2016 race totally transformed what what was considered possible via small dollar donations and a reliance on volunteer labor for outreach to voters. It inspired Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and led to her ultimate victory. Julia Salazar followed in her footsteps, as did Tiffany Caban, who almost won in a district that has more voters than many states.  

My initial question is who are the major players in donations to Democratic party politicians? Who consistently maxes out their contributions year after year? Have we seen a rise of other candidates like AOC who rely much more heavily on small-dollar donations and raise less money in general? Can we tell who they are just by looking at who their donors are and how much they gave?

My intended users are local-politics nerds like myself who know who many of the elected officials are, and would like to dig more deeply into who supports them. They won't need to know anything about the campaign finance cycles or filings or anything.  

The data comes from the statewide board of elections for city and state-level officials, and from the FEC for federal offices. I will probably initially limit it just to elected officials whose districts cover at least part of the 5 boroughs (not other parts of the state).

If I can swing it, I would like also to cross-reference the donors with the landlord information in the NYC-DB project: https://www.housingdatanyc.org/. Realestate lost big in Albany last election cycle and I am curious if their donation patterns have changed since then.  In that time there has also been pledges by a number of politicians to no longer accept real-estate money. Are they giving more money? Or are they funneling it to PACs? That's hard to measure, but if they are giving less money directly, this could be why. In general though I am curious to identify real estate as a class of donors and chart their donation patterns. The remaining analysis I have to do is between the NYC-DB landlord tables and the donor tables to see how much overlap there really is or if real estate has used other entities for donations and thus made it impossible to automate.